when the Lord spoke to Moses speak to
the children of Israel and say to them
when either a man or woman consecrates
an offering to take the vow of a
Nazarite to separate himself to the Lord
he shall separate himself from wine and
similar drink he shall drink neither
vinegar made from wine nor vinegar made
from similar drink neither shall he
drink any grape juice nor French or
raisins all the days of his separation
he shall eat nothing that is produced by
the grape vine from seed to skin all the
days of the vow of his separation no
razor shall come upon his head until the
days are fulfilled for which he
separated himself to the Lord he shall
be holy then he shall let the locks of
the hair of his head grow all the days
that he separates himself to the Lord he
shall not go near a dead body he shall
not make himself unclean
even for his father or his mother for
his brother or his sister when they die
because his separation to God is on his
end all the days of his separation he
shall be holy to the Lord and if anyone
dies very suddenly beside him and he
defiles his consecrated head then he
shall shave his head on the day of his
cleansing on the seventh day he shall
shave it then on the eighth day he shall
bring two turtledoves or two young
pigeons to the priest to the door of the
tabernacle of meeting and the priest
shall offer one as a sin offering and
the other as a burnt offering and make
atonement for
because he sinned in regard to the
corpse and he shall sanctify his hedge
that same day he shall consecrate to the
Lord the days of his separation and
bring a male lamb in its first year as a
trespass offering but the former days
shall be lost because his separation was
defiled now this is the law of the
Nazarite when the days of his separation
are fulfilled he shall be brought to the
door of the tabernacle of meeting and he
shall present his offering to the Lord
one male lamb in its first year without
blemish as a burnt offering one ewe lamb
in its first year without blemish as a
sin offering one ram without blemish as
a peace offering a basket of unleavened
bread cakes of fine flour mixed with oil
unleavened wafers anointed with oil and
their grain offering with their drink
offerings then the priest shall bring
them before the Lord and offer his sin
offering and his burnt offering and he
shall offer the RAM as a sacrifice of a
peace offering to the Lord with the
basket of unleavened bread the priest
shall also offer its grain offering and
it's drink offering then the Nazarite
shall shave his consecrated head at the
door of the tabernacle of meeting and
shall take the hair from his consecrated
head and put it on the fire which is
under the sacrifice of the peace
and the priest shall take the boiled
shoulder of the RAM one unleavened cake
from the basket and one unleavened wafer
and put them upon the hands of the
Nazarite after he has shaved his
consecrated hair and the priest shall
wave them as a wave offering before the
Lord
they are holy for the priest together
with the breasts of the wave offering
and the thigh of the heave offering
after that the Nazarite may drink wine
this is the law of the Nazarite who vows
to the Lord the offering for his
separation and besides that whatever
else his hand is able to provide
according to the vow which he takes so
he must do according to the law of his
separation and the Lord spoke to Moses
speak to Aaron and his sons saying this
is the way you shall bless the children
of Israel say to them the Lord bless you
and keep you the Lord make his face
shine upon you and be gracious to you
the Lord lift up his countenance upon
you
and give you peace so they shall put my
name on the children of Israel
and I will bless them